snippets/configuration/dependency-injection/Program.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/dependency-injection.md
snippets/configuration/console-di-ienumerable/Program.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/dependency-injection.md
snippets/configuration/console-di-ienumerable/ExampleService.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/dependency-injection.md
snippets/configuration/console-json/Program.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/configuration-providers.md
snippets/configuration/console-xml/Program.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/configuration-providers.md
snippets/configuration/console-ini/Program.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/configuration-providers.md
snippets/configuration/console/Program.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/configuration.md
snippets/logging/console-formatter-simple/Program.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/custom-log-formatter.md
snippets/configuration/custom-provider/Program.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/custom-configuration-provider.md
snippets/configuration/console-custom-logging/ColorConsoleLogger.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/custom-logging-provider.md
snippets/configuration/console-di-disposable/Program.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/dependency-injection-guidelines.md
snippets/configuration/console-di/Program.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/dependency-injection-usage.md
snippets/configuration/console-host/Program.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/generic-host.md
snippets/configuration/app-lifetime/Program.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/generic-host.md
snippets/configuration/app-lifetime/ExampleHostedService.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/generic-host.md
snippets/configuration/worker-service-options/Worker.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/high-performance-logging.md
snippets/configuration/console/Program.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/logging-providers.md
snippets/configuration/worker-service/appsettings.IncludeScopes.json: ~/docs/core/extensions/logging.md
snippets/configuration/worker-service/Worker.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/logging.md
snippets/configuration/console-json/appsettings.json: ~/docs/core/extensions/options.md
snippets/configuration/console-json/TransientFaultHandlingOptions.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/options.md
snippets/configuration/console-json/Program.cs: ~/docs/core/extensions/options.md
